# Dataset Portal

*Note: Latest code changes are in the master branch.*

## Features
- Authenticated entry into the portal.
- Can add datasets into the portal. A unique DOI is generated for every dataset to track its citation. 
- Can choose a license for the dataset from the available options or create a custom template.
- Privileged admin role that accepts or denies the custom template to be added into the portal for future purposes.
- Citations for datasets generated in Vancouver, BibTeX, and American and are copied to clipboard for faster citation.
- Can add research papers into the portal. Adobe Extract PDF API is used to extract text from pdf uploads.
- Can download the datasets and view the research papers on the portal. Each license for the dataset shows more information about the license terms.

## Database Schema
#### User:
```
unique_id- to create and destroy sessions
email
username
password
```

#### License:
```
name
info- either a url or text information about the license
pending- status of license approval
```

#### Dataset:
```
name
author
publicationYear
count- number of references the research papers make to a dataset
fileLink
license - referenced to license objects
doi - generated by the portal that uniquely identifies the dataset
```

#### Research Paper:
```
name
author
fileLink
```

## Instructions to Run:
- Create a file in the root folder and name it .env
- Configure a MongoDB Backend server with a dummy user and include the connect url in env.
- Go to https://acrobatservices.adobe.com/dc-integration-creation-app-cdn/main.html?api=pdf-extract-api and create credentials for Node.js. 
- Copy the client id and client secret into the env file.
- The final env file should finally look like this:
```
URL=mongodb+srv://<user>:<password>@database.<unique-database-id>.mongodb.net/
PDF_SERVICES_CLIENT_ID=<client-id>
PDF_SERVICES_CLIENT_SECRET=<client-secret>
```
- Then, to run the application, open the terminal and run:
```
$ npm start
```

- ### Using Docker:
- Make sure docker is configured.
- Then run:
```
docker build -t portal .
docker run -p 3000:3000 portal
```

*Run on Ubuntu-22.04 LTS*